# 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Input
- `target.c`: `omp target parallel for` that not requires data mapping
- `foo.c`: `omp target parallel for` that not requires data mapping
- `Makefile`: Use Clang and nvcc to compile the output files

### 1.2 Dependencies from REX compiler
- `libxomp.h`: ROSE header required by two `.cu` helpers
- `xomp_cuda_lib.cu`: ROSE helper in CUDA for GPU offloading
- `xomp_cuda_lib_inlined.cu`: ROSE helper in CUDA for GPU offloading
- `rex_kmp.h`: REX header for using LLVM OpenMP runtime
- `register_cubin.cpp`: REX offloading driver to register `.cubin` file
- `rex_nvidia.h`: REX offloading helper to declare the functions used in outlined function files
- `rex_nvidia.cu`: REX offloading helper to include ROSE offloading helpers so that they are only defined once


### 1.3 Output
- `rose_target.c`: first file with one GPU offloading function
- `rex_lib_target.cu`: outlined file having one GPU kernel
- `rose_foo.c`: second file with the other GPU offloading function
- `rex_lib_foo.cu`: outlined file having the other GPU kernel


# 2. Build

So far, the output files work on both Clang and GCC. The `.cubin` file must be generated by nvcc.
In `Makefile`, by default Clang is used for compilation. GCC requires the additional parameter `-Wl,--no-as-needed -lomp`.
Without this specific parameter, GCC won't link `libomp.so` to the program because it doesn't directly use any functions from that library.
However, without `libomp.so`, the program will throw an error:
```bash
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::system_error'
  what():  Unknown error -1
Aborted (core dumped)
```
Therefore, we have to force to link the library. Clang doesn't have this issue. If using nvcc to compile the main file, it also requires this parameter.
Please also notice that in the `Makefile`, the `$CUDA_ARCH` variable has to be set properly. For example, on Fornax, it's `sm_37`. On Carina, it's `sm_70`.

To compile using REX offloading driver:
```bash
make
```
To compile using clang-offload-wrapper:
```bash
make clang-wrapper
```

# 3. Run

```bash
./target.out
```

The program will print two times of string `Test 1.` and six times of string `Test 2.`. Running `nvprof` shows that the kernels run on GPU.
The code has been tested on Carina with NVIDIA Tesla V100, CUDA toolkit 11.2, and Clang/LLVM 11.x.

# 4. On-going work

- For now, the number of threads per block and number of blocks are set to 1024 and 256.

# 5. Issues

- The output for input files has to be transformed individually by REX instead of using one command for all.

